---
Course: "計算機結構"
Instructor: 楊政興
Academic: 108-1
Type: 小考
---

# [108-1] 計算機結構

1. Explain the following terminologies or concepts:   
    a. ISA   
    b. lazy linkage   
    c. RISC   
    d. power wall   
    e. sign extension

2. Consider processors P1 and P2 executing the same instruction set with the clock rates and CPIs given in the following tables.

    | Processor | Clock rate | CPI |
    | --------- | ---------- | --- |
    | P1        | 2GHz       | 1.5 |
    | P2        | 2.5GHz     | 2.0 |
    
    a. To execute a problem with *I* instrictions, which processor has the highest performance?   
    b. If boyh processors execute a program in 10 seconds, fnid the number of cycles and the number of instruction for P1 and P2?   
    c. We are trying to reduce the time by 20% but this leads to an increase of 10% in the CPI. What clock rate should we have to get this time reduction for P1 and P2?

3. Show the six different addressing modes supplied by MIPS. Please depict an instruction example to each addressing mode.

4. For each pseudoinstruction in the following table, produce a minimal sequence of actual MIPS instructions to accomplish the same thing. You may need to use $at for some of the sequences. In the following table, big refers to a specific number that requires 32 bits to represent and small to a number that can fit in 16 bits. You can use upper(big) and lower(big) to represent the upper 16-bit number and lower 16-bit number of big.

    | Pseudoinstruction   | What it accomplishes       |
    | ------------------- | -------------------------- |
    | beq \$t1, small, L  | if ( \$t1=small ) go to L  |
    | blt \$t1, \$t2, L   | if ( \$t1<\$t2 ) go to L   |
    | lw \$t1, big($t2)   | \$t1 = Memory[\$t2+big]    |

5. You want to create an array with the result of adding two arrays.   
    a. Point out the problems in the following procedure. Explain them.   
    b. How to fix the problem? (by consodering the characters of local variables, automatic variable, static variable, and global variable)   
    ```
    int add_array(int a[],int b[],int n)
    {
      int i,c[];
      for (i=0;i<n;i++)
        c[i] = a[i] + b[i];
       return c[];
    }
    ```

6. Fot the following problems, the current value of the PC is 0x1FFFF000 and you need to get to the target address 0x20014524.   
    a. What are the reachable addresses when a branch instruction is executed?   
    b. What are the reachable address when a jump instruction is executed?   
    c. How many branch instructions (no jump instructions) are required?   
    d. How many jump instructions (no jump register instructions or branch instructions) are required?   
    e. If you need to go to the target address 0xFFFFAA00, please use some MIPS instruction to finish this job.
    
7. Translate the following C code routines into MIPS Assembly
    ```
    int max(int a,intb)
    {
        if (a<B)
            return b;
        else
            return a;
    }
    ``` 
8. Following the above question, translate the followig C code routines into MIPS Assembly.
    ```
    int three_max(int a,int b,int c)
    {
        return max(max(a,b),c);
    }
    ```
