---
Course: "計算機結構"
Instructor: 楊政興
Academic: 108-1
Type: 期末
---

# [108-1] 計算機結構

1. Explain the following terminologies:   
    a. context switch   
    b. thrashing   
    c. page fault   
    d. TLB   
    e. dirty bit
    
2.   
    a. What is mermory hierarchy?   
    b. What is the principle of locality? Give two examples of program attributes having temporal locality. Give two examples of program attributes having spatial locality.
    
3. The following table shows parameters of a virtual memeory system.

    | Virtual address (bits) | Pyhysical DRAM installed | Page Size | PTE size (byte) |
    | -- | ---- | --- | - |
    | 42 | 16GB | 8KB | 4 |
    
    a. For a single-level page table, how many page table entries (PTE) are needed? How much physical memeory is needed for stroing the page table?   
    b. Using a multilevel page table can reduce the physical memory consumption of page tables by only keeping active PTEs in physical memory keveks of page tables will be needed? And how many memory references needed for address translation if missing in TLB?   
    c. An inverted page table can be used to optimize space and time. How many PTEs are needed to store the page table? Assuming a hash table implementaion, what are the common-case and worst-case numbers of memory reference needed for servcing a TLB miss?


4. Cache coherence concerns the views of multiple processors on a given cache block. The following table shows two processors and their read/write operations on two different words of a cache block X(initially X[0]=x[1]=0)

    | P1             | P2             |
    | -------------- | -------------- |
    | X[0]=3;X[1]+=3 | X[0]=2;X[1]+=5 |
    
    a. List the possible values of the given cache block for a correct cache coherence protocol implementation.   
    b. List at least one more possible value of the block if the protocol doesn't ensure cache coherency. Please explain the case of not ensuring cache coherency.

5. In a memory hierarchy system with cache, main memory, and hard disk, a memory reference can encounter three different types of misses: a TLB miss, a page fault, and a cache miss. For the following conditions, are they possible or impossible? For the possible conditions, where the data can be found?

    | Condition | TLB  | Page table | Cache |
    | --------- | ---- | ---------- | ------|
    | 1         | hit  | hit        | miss  |
    | 2         | hit  | miss       | miss  |
    | 3         | hit  | miss       | hit   |
    | 4         | miss | hit        | hit   |
    | 5         | miss | hit        | miss  |
    | 6         | miss | miss       | hit   |
    | 7         | miss | miss       | miss  |
    | 8         | hit  | hit        | hit   |

6. Assuming that a cache has 128 Kbytes data, a block has 8 words, a word has 4 bytes, and memory address is 32-bit byte address. Find the total number of bits(including data. tags, and a valid bit) for each cache in the following conditions.   
    a. Four-way set-associative cache   
    b. Given a 32-bit address, draw a diagram to show that using the address bits to access a word from the above four-way set-associative cache.
    
7.   
    a. What is the minimum number of parity bits required to protect a 32-bit word using the single error correcting(SEC) Hamming code?   
    b. Let a 9-bit data be 111010011. What is its SEC Hamming code?   
    c. Show any error in the 11-bit SEC Hamming code 01101100011.

8. For a two-way set-associative cache designed with 32-bit byte address, the following bits of the address are used to access cache.

    | Tag  | Index | Offset |
    | ---- | ----- | ------ |
    | 31-6 | 5-3   | 2-0    |
   
    Suppose that a word contains four bytes. Starting from power on, the following byte-addressed cache references are recorded. Addresses: 160, 10, 33, 164, 48, 30, 100, 14, 310, 672, 550, 300:   
    a. What is the blockes size(in words)?   
    b. How many blocks does the cache have?   
    c. Show set index, tag, hit or miss, and replacement or not for each reference. The replacement policy is LRU.   
    d. Show the final contents of the cache, including <index, tag, data>. For example, when byte address 0 is accessed, <0, 0, byte[0~3]> is in the cache if the block size is four bytes.
