---
Course: "計算機概論"
Instructor: 林義凱
Academic: 112-1
Type: 期中
---

1. (4 pts.) Convert the following hexadecimal numbers to decimal. Show your calculation.   
	a. $16_{16}$   
	b. $FF_{16}$    
	c. $101.1_{16}$   
	d. $AB.1_{16}$

2. (4 pts.) Convert the following decimal numbers to binary. Show your calculation.   
	a. $65534_{10}$   
	b. $7.6875_{10}$

3. (4 pts.) Change the following 8-bit two's complement numbers to decimal. Show your calculation.   
	a. 10001010   
	b. 01111111   
	c. 11111110   
	d. 10000000

4. (4 pts.) In a computer system using two's complement representation, a n-bit signed integer can represent a range of values. If you have a n-bit two's complement representation, what is the minimum and maximum decimal value that can be expressed using this representation? Express the answer in decimal numbers.

5. (10 pts.) The bit pattern $11001010\_01100000\_00000000\_00000000_2$ is stored in 32-bit IEEE format. What is the value of the number in decimal notation. Show your calculation. Hint: 32-bit IEEE format exponent size is 8 bits, mantissa size is 23 bits and bias is 127.

6. (20 pts.) Convert the following numbers to 32-bit IEEE format. Show your calculation.   
	a. $-1.125_{10}$   
	b. $3.3_{10}$

7. (4 pts.) You are tasked with setting (forcing to 1) the five leftmost bits of an 8-bit pattern. Provide the binary mask and the bitwise operation that accomplishes this task.

8. (4 pts.) Perform the following operations with the numbers and the result are represented in 8-bit two's complement representation. In case of an overflow, indicate that there is an overflow, and provide the calculation process and results regardless of whether there is an overflow or not.   
	a. $011111110_2 + 11111101_2$   
	b. $10111010_2 + 11111111_2$

9. (4 pts.) Write an UNIX command to copy all files in the directory "/home/stu/Video/" to your home directory.

10. (4 pts.) Write an UNIX command to make all files in the directory "new" readable by owner.

11. (4 pts.) Write an UNIX command to move a file named "tmp.cpp" in directory "/home/stu/" to current directory.

12. (4 pts.) Write an UNIX command to change the owner of all files and subdirectories within the "new" directory to new owner "stu".

13. (5 pts.) Write truth table, schematic symbol (diagram), and logic symbol for the exclusive OR (XOR) gate.

14. (5 pts.) Draw the circuit for the Boolean algebra expression $x = \overline{((a \cdot b) + \overline{(c \cdot d)})}$

15.  (20 pts.) The full-adder has three inputs: an A bit, a B bit, and C bit. The result of the addition of these three bits produces two bits: a _sum_ bit S, and _carry_ bit $C_o$. Design a logic circuit that will perform the full-adder.   
	(a). Construct the truth table, the sum-of-products express for the S and $C_o$ , and draw circuit   
	(b). Draw a diagram illustrating how to construct an 8-bit adder using 8 individual 1-bit full-adders.   
	(Hint: Use a rectangle to represent a 1-bit adder)
