---
Course: "計算機網路"
Instructor: 王朱福
Academic: 112-2
Type: 作業1
---

# [112-2] 計算機網路

1. Give the full name of the following acronyms.
   (a) ISP
   (b) ICP
   (c) TDM
   (d) ADSL
   (e) HTTP

2. What are the five layers in the Internet protocol stack?

3. Consider sending a packet from a sending host to a receiving host over a fixed route. List the delay components in the end-to-end delay.

4. With guided media, the waves are guided along a solid medium. With unguided media, the waves propagate in the atmosphere and in outer space. Give three examples of guided media and one example of unguided media.

5. Suppose Host A wants to send a large file to Host B. This path from Host A to Host B has three links, of rates $R_1 = 500kbps$, $R_2 = 3Mbps$, and $R_3 = 1Mbps$. Suppose the file is 6 million bytes. Rougly, how long will it take to transfer the file to Host B (use message switching and store-and-forward)?

6. Suppose two hosts, A and B, are separated by 20,,000 kilometers and are connected by a direct link of $R = 1Mbps$. Suppose the propagation speed over the link is $2 \times 10^8$ meters/sec.   
   (a) Calculate the "bandwidth-delay product", $R \cdot t_{prop}$   
   (b) Consider sending a file of 400,000 bits from host A to host B. Suppose the file is sent continously as one big message. What is the maximum number of bits that will be in the link at any given time.   
   (c) Provide an interpretation of the bandwidth-delay product.   
   (d) What is the width (in meters) of a bit in the link?   
   (e) Derive a general expression for the width of a bit in terms of the propagation speed $s$, the bandwidth $R$, and the length of the link $m$.

7. Suppose $N$ packets arrive simultaneously to a link at which no packets are currently being transmitted or queued. Each packet is of length $L$ and the link has transmission rate $R$. What is the average queueing delay for the $N$ packets?

   
